# Migration Guide: v0.7 to v0.8

Before migrating, make sure to run `rustup update`.

Sycamore v0.8 relies heavily on the "non-lexical lifetimes" (NLL) feature that
was
[recently stabilized](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2022/08/05/nll-by-default.html).
As a result, the Minimum Supported Rust Version (MSRV) has been updated from
`1.53` to `1.63`.

The major changes introduced in v0.8 are described below. There are many further
small changes that are not described here.

## Reactivity

Reactivity has been completely overhauled to be more ergonomic. Check out
[Reactivity](/docs/v0.8/basics/reactivity) in the updated book and the
[Reactivity v2 blog post](/news/new-reactive-primitives) for more information.

## Components

### `#[component]` macro

The `#[component]` macro no longer takes the name of the component as a
parameter. Instead, the name of the component is the function itself. As such,
it is now idiomatic to name component functions in `PascalCase`.

```rust
// Old v0.7 syntax.
#[component(MyComponent<G>)]
fn my_component(props: MyProps) -> View<G> { ... }

// New v0.8 syntax.
#[component]
fn MyComponent<G: Html>(props: MyProps) -> View<G> { ... }
```

### Component arguments and children

Component arguments and children should now be passed using the same syntax as
elements.

```rust
// Old v0.7 syntax.
view! {
    MyComponent(MyProps {
        foo: true,
        bar: "abc",
        children: view! { ... }
    })
}

// New v0.8 syntax.
view! { cx,
    MyComponent(foo=true, bar="abc") {
        ...
    }
}
```

## Empty elements

Empty elements must now be followed by an empty block.

```rust
// Old v0.7 syntax.
view! {
    br
}

// New v0.8 syntax.
view! { cx,
    br {}
}
```

## Builder API

The builder API has been rebuilt from the ground up. Check out the
[book](/docs/v0.8/basics/view#builder-syntax) for more information on migrating.

## Keyed and Indexed props

The `template` prop has been renamed to `view`.

```rust
// Old v0.7 syntax.
Keyed(KeyedProps {
    iterable: count.handle(),
    template: |x| view! {
        li { (x) }
    },
    key: |x| *x,
})

// New 0.8 syntax.
Keyed(
    iterable=count,
    view=|cx, x| view! { cx,
        li { (x) }
    },
    key=|x| *x,
)
```

## Feature Flags

Some of the feature flags have been removed/renamed:

- `experimental-builder-agnostic` and `experimental-builder-html` has been
  removed since they are available by default.
- `experimental-hydrate` is now `hydrate`.
- `dom` is now `web`.
- `futures` is now `suspense`.

Be sure to make the according changes to your `Cargo.toml`.
