---
title: v0.8 to v0.9
---

# Migration Guide: v0.8 to v0.9

## Reactivity v3

Sycamore v0.9 introduces a brand-new reactivity system. Not only is the new
reactivity system faster than before, it is much nicer to use. The biggest
change is the removal of the explicit `cx: Scope` in favor of implicitly
tracking scopes. This is just like v0.7, all the while still keeping the
ergonomics of `Copy`-able `Signal`s introduced in v0.8. This change also means
that we no longer have to deal with lifetimes! Instead, everything is `'static`,
allowing signals to be copied easily into global event handlers among other
things.

### No more `Scope`!

Getting rid of all the `cx: Scope` from your code can be made much more
efficient with a couple find and replace searches. Unfortunately, this will
likely not work for all cases so you still need to go fix a few edge cases
manually yourself.

| Match            | Replacement  |
| ---------------- | ------------ |
| `cx: Scope,`     | ` `          |
| `cx: Scope`      | ` `          |
| `cx,`            | ` `          |
| `cx`             | ` `          |
| `<'a,`           | `<`          |
| `<'a>`           | ` `          |
| `&'a Signal`     | `Signal`     |
| `&'a ReadSignal` | `ReadSignal` |

### No more `RcSignal`!

`RcSignal` has also been removed in favor of just using `Signal` which is now
`'static`. For the most part, this can be migrated using the following:

| Match              | Replacement     |
| ------------------ | --------------- |
| `RcSignal`         | `Signal`        |
| `create_rc_signal` | `create_signal` |

### Explicit `.get_clone()`

Another breaking change is that signals no longer automatically wrap their value
inside an `Rc`. This means that for a non-`Copy` value, you will either need to
clone the value or use the new helper method `.with(|value| ...)`.

```rust
let number: Signal<i32> = create_signal(123);
let string: Signal<String> = create_signal("Hello, Sycamore!".to_string());

// `i32` implements `Copy`.
let _: i32 = number.get();
// `String` does not implement `Copy` but implements `Clone`.
let _: String = string.get_clone();
```

### No more `create_ref`

Because of the how the new reactivity system is structured, we no longer provide
a `create_ref` hook. Instead, if you need to pass around a `Copy`-able handle to
some data, just use signals.

### `nightly` only features

If you are using Rust nightly, you can enable the `nightly` feature on
`sycamore` to be able to access the signal value by simply calling it:

```rust
// Stable
let value = signal.get();
// Nightly only
let value = signal();
```

For more information about the new reactivity system, check out the updated docs
on [Reactivity](/book/introduction/adding-state)

## View Backend v2

These pesky generics have been here since Sycamore v0.5 where we introduced SSR
support. Up until now, we have used generics to allow Sycamore apps to be
isomorphic, meaning that they can run on both the server and the client,
rendering to a string and to the DOM respectively.

However, adding generics to every single function that returns a `View` quickly
becomes tedious. No more! Now, Sycamore uses target detection to automatically
select the right rendering backend. If it detects that we are building for a
`wasm32` target, the DOM backend will automatically be used. Otherwise, the SSR
backend will be selected.

For updating your existing codebase, finding and replacing `"<G: Html>"` with
`""` (empty string) and `"View<G>"` with `"View"` should take care of most of
the cases.

```rust
// Old
#[component(inline_props)]
fn Component<'a, G: Html'(cx: Scope<'a>, value: &'a ReadSignal<i32>) -> View<G> {
    ...
}

// New
#[component(inline_props)]
fn Component(value: ReadSignal<i32>) -> View {
    ...
}
```

### New builder syntax

All attributes are correctly type-checked now. This also reflects itself in the
builder API.

```rust
// Old
div()
    .c(h1()
        .t("Hello ")
        .dyn_if(
            move || !name.with(String::is_empty),
            move || span().dyn_t(move || name.get_clone()),
            move || span().t("World"),
        )
        .t("!"))
    .c(input().bind_value(name))
    .view();

// New
div()
    .children((
        h1().children((
            "Hello ",
            move || {
                if !name.with(String::is_empty) {
                    span().children(move || name.get_clone())
                } else {
                    span().children("World")
                }
            },
            "!",
        )),
        input().bind(bind::value, name),
    ))
    .into();
```

Refer to the page on the [builder API](/book/guide/view-builder) in the book for
more details.

## Other small changes

There are a bunch of other smaller changes introduced by this release. Since so
much of the core API has been updated, however, it is hard to provide a precise
guide for migrating to v0.9 for all the changes. Some of them are documented
below.

### Event handlers now use the proper types

### `iterable` renamed to `list` for `Indexed` and `Keyed`

```rust
// Old
view! {
    Indexed(
        iterable=...,
        view=...,
    )
}
// New
view! {
    Indexed(
        list=...,
        view=...,
    )
}
```

In addition, `list` now accepts static `Vec`s as well so no need creating a
dummy signal when using `Indexed`/`Keyed`:

```rust
// Old
view! {
    Indexed(
        list=*create_signal(vec![...]),
        view=...,
    )
}
// New
view! {
    Indexed(
        list=vec![...],
        view=...,
    )
}
```

### `ref` renamed to `r#ref`, `type` renamed to `r#type`

Since everything is based on the builder API now, the `view!` macro no longer
special cases `ref` and `type`. Instead, use `r#ref` and `r#type`. All other
identifiers that are Rust keywords should now be prepended with `r#`.

### Views do not implement clone

Views no longer implement clone. This was somewhat of a footgun before because
cloning a view creates a _shallow clone_. This has some weird consequences. It
means that if you were to insert the same view twice, the view would be removed
from the first location and inserted into the second location. This is rarely
expected behavior.

In v0.9, this is no longer possible. Instead, for cases where you needed to
clone views, consider using channels instead as this ensures that the view can
only be used once.

### Signals can be converted directly to views

No more need to do this:

```rust
view! {
    (signal.get())
}
```

Now, you can just write:

```rust
view! {
    (signal)
}
```

The resulting view is still, of course, dynamic.

### Children can be converted directly to views

Children can now be directly interpolated inside the `view!` macro.

```rust
view! {
    div {
        (children)
    }
}
```
