# Migration Guide: v0.8 to v0.9

> v0.9 is not yet stable and features have not yet been finalised. This migration guide may be incomplete and may change before the final v0.9 release.

## Reactivity v3

Sycamore v0.9 introduces a brand-new reactivity system. Not only is the new reactivity system faster than before, it is much nicer to use.
The biggest change is the removal of the explicit `cx: Scope` in favor of implicitly tracking scopes through a global variable. This is just like v0.7, all the while still keeping the ergonomics of `Copy`-able `Signal`s introduced in v0.8. This change also means that we no longer have to deal with lifetimes! Instead, everything is `'static`, allowing signals to be copied easily into global event handlers among other things.

### No more `Scope`!
Migration should for the most part be quite systematic. A few global string replacements should take care of the bulk of the work:

| Match | Replacement |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `cx: Scope,` | ` ` |
| `cx: Scope` | ` ` |
| `cx,` | ` ` |
| `cx` | ` ` |
| `<'a,` | `<` |
| `<'a>` | ` ` |
| `&'a Signal` | `Signal` |
| `&'a ReadSignal` | `ReadSignal` |

### No more `RcSignal`!
`RcSignal` has also been removed in favor of just using `Signal` which is now `'static`. This can be migrated using the following:

| Match | Replacement |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `RcSignal` | `Signal` |
| `create_rc_signal` | `create_signal` |

### Explicit `.get_clone()`
Another breaking change is that signals no longer automatically wrap their value inside an `Rc`. This means that for a non-`Copy` value, you will either need to clone the value or use the new helper method `.with(|value| ...)`.

### `nightly` only features
If you are using Rust nightly, you can enable the `nightly` feature on `sycamore` to be able to access the signal value by simply calling it:
```rust
// Stable
let value = signal.get();
// Nightly only
let value = signal();
```

For more information about the new reactivity system, check out the updated docs on [Reactivity](../basics/reactivity)

## Small Breaking Changes


